== MySQL2 Spatial \ActiveRecord Adapter

The MySQL2 Spatial \ActiveRecord Adapter is an \ActiveRecord connection
adapter based on the standard mysql2 adapter. It extends the standard
adapter to provide support for spatial columns and indexes in MySQL,
using the {RGeo}[http://github.com/dazuma/rgeo] library to represent
spatial data in Ruby. Like the standard mysql2 adapter, this adapter
requires the mysql2 gem.

== What This Adapter Provides

=== Spatial Migrations

First, this adapter extends the migration syntax to support creating 
spatial columns and indexes. To create a spatial column, use the
<tt>:geometry</tt> type, or any of the OGC spatial types such as
<tt>:point</tt> or <tt>:line_string</tt>. To create a spatial index, set
the <tt>:spatial</tt> option to true. Remember that, on some versions of
MySQL, only the MyISAM engine supports spatial indexes, and the indexed
column may need to be NOT NULL.

Examples:

  create_table :my_spatial_table, :options => 'ENGINE=MyISAM' do |t|
    t.column :latlon, :point, :null => false
    t.line_string :path
    t.geometry :shape
  end
  change_table :my_spatial_table do |t|
    t.index :latlon, :spatial => true
  end

=== Spatial Attributes

When this adapter is in use, spatial attributes in your \ActiveRecord
objects will have RGeo geometry values. You can set spatial attributes
either to RGeo geometry objects, or to strings in WKT (well-known text)
format, which the adapter will automatically convert to geometry objects.

Spatial objects in RGeo are tied to a factory that specifies the
coordinate system as well as other behaviors of the object. You must
therefore specify a factory for each spatial column (attribute) in your
\ActiveRecord class. You can either set an explicit factory for a specific
column, or provide a factory generator that will yield the appropriate
factory for the table's spatial columns based on their types. For the
former, call the <tt>set_rgeo_factory_for_column</tt> class method on your
\ActiveRecord class. For the latter, set the rgeo_factory_generator class
attribute. This generator should understand at least the <tt>:srid</tt>
options, which will be provided based on the SRID embedded in the value
itself, since MySQL does not support SRID or dimension constraints on
spatial columns themselves. The set_rgeo_factory_for_column and
rgeo_factory_generator methods are actually implemented and documented in
the "rgeo-activerecord" gem.

Examples, given the spatial table defined above:

  class MySpatialTable < ActiveRecord::Base
    
    # By default, use the GEOS implementation for spatial columns.
    self.rgeo_factory_generator = RGeo::Geos.method(:factory)
    
    # But use a geographic implementation for the :latlon column.
    set_rgeo_factory_for_column(:latlon, RGeo::Geographic.spherical_factory)
    
  end

Now you can interact with the data using the RGeo types:

  rec = MySpatialTable.new
  rec.latlon = 'POINT(-122 47)'   # You can set by feature object or WKT.
  loc = rec.latlon                # Accessing always returns a feature object, in
                                  # this case, a geographic that understands latitude.
  loc.latitude                    # => 47
  rec.shape = loc                 # the factory for the :shape column is GEOS, so the
                                  # value will be cast from geographic to GEOS.
  RGeo::Geos.is_geos?(rec.shape)  # => true

=== Spatial Queries

You can create simple queries based on objective equality in the same way
you would on a scalar column:

  rec = MySpatialTable.where(:latlon => RGeo::Geos.factory.point(-122, 47)).first

You can also use WKT:

  rec = MySpatialTable.where(:latlon => 'POINT(-122 47)').first

The adapter also provides experimental support for more complex queries
such as radius searches. However, these extensions require Arel 2.1
(which is scheduled for release with Rails 3.1). We do not have these
documented yet, and the syntax is subject to change. For now, you should
write more complex queries in SQL.

== Installation And Configuration

=== Installing The Adapter Gem

This adapter has the following requirements:

* Ruby 1.8.7 or later. Ruby 1.9.2 or later preferred.
* MySQL server 5.0 or later required for spatial extensions.
* \ActiveRecord 3.0.3 or later. Earlier versions will not work.
  Should be compatible with Rails versions through 3.2.x.
* mysql2 gem 0.2.13 or later.
* rgeo gem 0.3.15 or later.
* rgeo-activerecord gem 0.4.5 or later.

Install this adapter as a gem:

  gem install activerecord-mysql2spatial-adapter

See the README for the "rgeo" gem, a required dependency, for further
installation information.

=== Basic Setup

To use this adapter, add this gem, "activerecord-mysql2spatial-adapter",
to your Gemfile, and then request the adapter name "mysql2spatial" in
your database connection configuration (which, for a Rails application,
is in the config/database.yml file). The other database connection
configuration parameters are the same as for the stock mysql2 adapter,
so you can create a new Rails application using:

  rails new my_app --database=mysql

...and then just change the adapter name to "mysql2spatial".

== Additional Information

=== Known bugs and limitations

This adapter is not yet well tested. There are probably some bugs and
holes in the functionality. We aren't using MySQL spatial extensions in
production at GeoPage, so we would appreciate testing help and feedback
from anyone who is.

One known issue is that if you want to use Rails's testing rake tasks and
you have spatial indexes in your schema, you should use the <tt>:sql</tt>
dump style. e.g. set <tt>config.active_record.schema_format = :sql</tt>.
The reason is that Rails's Ruby-format schema dumper does not preserve
the :options used to create the table, specifically setting the
Engine=MyISAM. Under MySQL Spatial, you may create spatial indexes only
on MyISAM tables; unfortunately, if you use the Ruby-format schema to
create your test databases, Rails does not transfer this information
properly, and your test tables are created as InnoDB. The workaround is
to use the <tt>:sql</tt> dump format. This has been reported as a bug in
Rails as of Rails 3.0.3, so we hope it will get rectified at some point.

=== Development and support

Documentation is available at http://dazuma.github.com/activerecord-mysql2spatial-adapter/rdoc

Source code is hosted on Github at http://github.com/dazuma/activerecord-mysql2spatial-adapter

Contributions are welcome. Fork the project on Github.

Report bugs on Github issues at http://github.org/dazuma/activerecord-mysql2spatial-adapter/issues

Support available on the rgeo-users google group at http://groups.google.com/group/rgeo-users

Contact the author at dazuma at gmail dot com.

=== Acknowledgments

The Mysql2Spatial Adapter and its supporting libraries (including RGeo)
are written by Daniel Azuma (http://www.daniel-azuma.com).

Development is supported by Pirq. (http://www.pirq.com).

This adapter implementation owes some debt to the spatial_adapter plugin
(http://github.com/fragility/spatial_adapter). Although we made a few
different design decisions for this adapter, studying the spatial_adapter
source gave us a head start on the implementation.

=== License

Copyright 2010-2012 Daniel Azuma

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of the copyright holder, nor the names of any other
  contributors to this software, may be used to endorse or promote products
  derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
